[Music]
well hi lookie here test your intuition
and guess which of these statements are
true you know our world is a wonderful
place full of funny unexpected and
interesting things we learn something
new every day do you think you have
enough common sense to guess which
general facts are true and which are
false well let's test it but before we
start don't forget to subscribe to our
Channel
turn on notifications as well so you
don't miss any of our new videos
everything is simple
we'll give you a statement or ask you a
question and you have to guess whether
it's true or false you'll have just a
few seconds to think about it ready then
let's get started number one let's start
with an easy one here's your first fact
chameleons change color to match their
surroundings
true or false
[Music]
everyone knows this good old fact but
it's actually false chameleons change
color as a response to certain factors
like temperature communication and light
it has nothing to do with where they are
be careful these questions aren't as
easy as you might think and if you
dodged that bullet
props to you but don't relax as there
are more questions to come number two
right-handed people live longer than
left-handed people what do you say nope
this is just a popular myth that started
with a couple of flawed reports in 1988
nature a scientific journal published a
brief report showing a statistical
difference in longevity between
right-handed and left-handed people the
data for the report was gathered from
professional baseball players later
these same authors published another
study in the New England Journal of
Medicine that demonstrated an even
larger lifespan difference critics of
these studies claim that the methods the
authors used were seriously flawed other
approaches confirmed that lifespan and
handedness are in no way related so all
left-handers can happily sigh with
relief but third basemen really do live
way longer than pitchers no that's not
true either I was just messing with you
either way
three strikes and you're out number
three only female mosquitoes by humans
use your intuition to try and guess
whether it's true or not
[Music]
if your common sense told you that it's
true congratulations
you're right male mosquitoes feed on
flower nectar female mosquitoes on the
other hand need the protein found in
human and animal blood to reproduce and
so they feed on us and by the way if
you've ever wondered why mosquitoes
mostly bite you and no one else there's
an explanation for it you're a sweetie
well now it turns out that female
mosquitoes have approximately seventy
two types of odor receptors and 27 of
them can recognize the octenol nan and
all and carbon dioxide chemicals found
in human sweat people who have higher
levels of these chemicals in their sweat
get bitten way more often it's as simple
as that
number four keeping dogs as pets is
banned in Iceland do you think it's true
[Music]
actually it's kind of not anymore it was
the case in the 1920s though when this
band served as a measure to prevent a
really long word that I just had to go
look up at konoka kosis a type of
tapeworm that can be passed from dogs to
humans please don't ask me how that
happens now the situation has changed
and you can get permission to have a dog
according to the regulations every dog
has to be registered to both an address
and an individual the individual can
have any animal abuse or criminal
charges that might suggest that they
would be using the dog as a guard or
attack dog moreover several guard dogs
are banned completely so having a dog
isn't illegal in Iceland citizens just
tend to go for cats number five at one
point Apple launched a clothing line try
to make up your mind quickly in fact
Apple did have a clothing line back in
1986 so if you guess true you're right
just one year after Steve Jobs resigned
as chairman the company decided to give
the Apple collection ago it was a line
of Apple branded clothing accessories
and lifestyle items and it allowed fans
to show their appreciation and love for
the company just imagine what it would
be like now who knows maybe someday
Apple will go back to this idea hey we
can all walk around in gray turtleneck
sand jeans like Steve Jobs number six is
dog food taster an actual job Chloe
what do you think
[Music]
Wow this truly exists all you have to do
is taste dog food to make sure it meets
the brand's quality standards whatever
those are the typical salary for dog
food tasters is twenty six thousand five
hundred bucks for an entry-level job in
the quality Department however it's
possible to make even more if you're
willing to not only taste the food but
also develop new recipes yourself so
give yourself another check if you've
got it right and a cross
if you guessed incorrectly alrighty then
number seven we as humans share 70% of
our DNA with bananas true or false so
what do you think is it a surprising
truth or complete nonsense the reality
is that we do share DNA with bananas but
it's 50% not 70% by the way can you
spell all the letters of the word banana
in the comments without another comment
interrupting you let's see who will be
able to do it first Hey for extra credit
do you know what the bright side and a
banana have in common
yes we both have a peel okay sorry about
that let's move on number 8 the Guinness
World Records set for the longest
interval between the birth of twins is
87 days who would think about it
[Music]
it's the true story of Maria Jones
Eliot's birthing experience Maria went
into labor four months early and gave
birth to Amy but Katy arrived three
months later doctors have told the
family that it's a true miracle and that
they achieved the medical equivalent of
winning the lottery with both girls
alive and healthy the previous record
was 84 days held by Peggy Lynn from
Pennsylvania number nine it rains
diamonds on Jupiter and Saturn accurate
or inaccurate
according to modern scientists this is a
fact the BBC reported that new
atmospheric data for the gas giants
indicates that carbon is abundant in its
dazzling crystal form plus one thousand
tons of diamonds are created every year
on Saturn alone the biggest diamonds
would very likely be just about a
centimeter in diameter
still it's highly impressive and
fascinating right
ooh that also means there are carats on
Saturn to think about it number 10 you
can marry a dead person in France is
this a real fact or a fake one well the
ceremony would be pretty one-sided now
wouldn't it posthumous marriage is a
legal procedure in France that allows
citizens to marry a deceased person now
this sounds kind of wrong and a bit
creepy but there's a perfectly good
explanation for it it all started during
World War one when many women wanted to
tie the knot with their deceased lovers
now the procedure has a strict set of
rules if you want to go ahead with a
posthumous marriage you have to send a
request to the president of France he
then forwards it to the Justice Minister
who once again forwards it to the
prosecutor for the surviving members
District if the couple originally
planned to get married and the family of
the deceased approves of this as well
the prosecutor sends the application
back to the president however there's
still a chance that it won't work
as one in four applications are rejected
number 11 is it illegal to be overweight
in Japan think carefully well for the
most part it's false
sure Japan has a strict policy
concerning people's weight it's called
the Metabo law but it doesn't include
actual imprisonment or anything severe
like that this law basically requires
Japanese citizens between the ages of 45
and 74 to have their waist lines
measured once a year the Metabo law
affects men with waist lines larger than
35 point 4 inches and women with waist
lines larger than 31.5 inches people who
fall into this category are encouraged
to seek medical treatment to deal with
the problem so no going to jail or
anything like that for overweight
Japanese people apparently sumo
wrestlers have their own set of rules
number 12 in the 1830s ketchup was sold
and used as medicine yes or no
[Music]
well it's hard to believe but it really
is true originally ketchup was a
concoction of fish and mushrooms
however in 1834 when it was published
that tomatoes solve digestion problems
dr. John cook Bennett added tomatoes to
ketchup for more nutrients and
antioxidants
he claimed that this new ketchup could
cure diarrhea indigestion and rheumatism
he made his sauce into an extract and
started selling tomato pills all this
turned into a true ketchup war though
when copycats started to sell their own
tomato pills as well this ended only in
the 1850s when most authorities debunked
ketchup as a hoax ketchup will however
cure the lonely french fry number 13
birds are related to dinosaurs
ridiculous or true it's your call
[Music]
of course it's false birds aren't
related to dinosaurs they are dinosaurs
you see all dinosaur groups really did
become extinct but one of them survived
and went on to become all the birds we
see today modern paleontology indicates
that birds of all from Surrey she and
dinosaurs and may have started to emerge
about a hundred and fifty million years
ago well before the invention of ketchup
but that's not all you can also say that
birds are reptiles in modern biology
scientists follow phylogenetic
classification which divides animals
into groups by their ancestry and in
this reptile category they're most
closely related to crocodiles
oh that's mind-blowing number 14
you can't snore and dream at the same
time reality or just a myth this one is
still a big mystery to us do you know
the right answer hey my dog Riley can do
both but what about you what are your
thoughts on this is it possible to do
both share your opinions in the comments
below and let's try to find the truth
together so what's the most shocking and
surprising thing you've learned recently
tell us in the comments
don't forget to give us a like and click
Subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life